# PwdGen

A generator of various types of passwords:

* Words from a specific language concatenated together with some digits and punctuation thrown in. These are quite easy to remember.
* Randomly generated syllables concatenated together with some digits and punctuation thrown in. These are surprisingly easy to remember.
* Random strings with some digits and punctuation thrown in. These are impossible to remember.

## Usage

The default index.php is pretty usable. It outputs passwords in English and Dutch, a nonsense syllable password and a random password, all generated using sane defaults (at least 12 characters in length, with at least two digits and one punctuation symbol). The words that make up passwords are capitalized.

## Tweaking

The PwdGen class provides some opportunities for tweaking out of the box. You can set the following attributes:

* **capitalizeWords** : whether to capitalize the first characters of words or not. Defaults to true.
* **language** : the language to use for passwords that consist of real words concatenated together. The value of this parameter determines the name of the word list file that will be used. For example: if the value is "nl" a file "words/nl.txt" is used. By default word lists are available for English ("en") and for Dutch ("nl"), but you can also add your own. Defaults to "en".
* **minLength** : the minimum length a password should have. Passwords that consist of words concatenated together may be longer than this. Defaults to 12.
* **numDigits** : the number of digits that will be added to the password. For passwords that consist of words concated together digits are injected inbetween individual words. For random passwords they are injected randomly. Defaults to 2
* **numPunctuationSymbols** : the number of punctuation symbols that will be added to the password. For passwords that consist of words concated together punctuation symbols are injected inbetween individual words. For random passwords they are injected randomly. Defaults to 1.
* **punctuationSymbols** : the list of symbols that are considered to be punctuation. You can add or remove symbols from this list using the addPunctuationSymbol and removePunctuationSymbol methods or you can update the entire list at once. The default list of symbols consists of ! ( ) [ ] : ; , and ?
## Publicly callable methods

* **addPunctuationSymbol(symbol)** : add the given symbol to the list of punctuation symbols.
* **generateNonsensePassword()** : generate a password that consists of nonsense syllables concatenated together with symbols and punctuation injected at the last syllable boundary. Syllables consist of a consonant followed by one or two vowels followed by a consonant. The are randomly generated.
* **generatePasswordUsingGenerator(wordGeneratingFunction)** : generate a password that consists of strings generated by the wordGeneratingFunction you pass it concatenated together with symbols and punctuation injected at the last word boundary.
* **generateRandom()** : generate a password that consists of randomly chosen characters as well as the set number of digits and punctuation symbols. The number of characters is the number set in the **minLength** attribute. Optionally, however, you can supply a different number.
* **generateWordPassword()** : generate a password that consists of words from the language set in **language** concatenated together with symbols and punctuation injected at the last word boundary.
* **removePunctuationSymbol(symbol)** : remove the given symbol from the list of punctuation symbols.
